D3.js Getting Nodes Data Under Brush Selection (#13)
datumbrain/datumbrain.github.io: _posts/2018-10-25-d3-getting-graphdata-selected-by-brush.md

---
layout: post
title: D3.js - Getting Data Under Brush Selection
author: Nauman Zafar Chaudhry
date: "2018-10-25 16:30:00"
---

<img src="/assets/d3js-icon.svg" style="margin-left:40%;width:150px;"/>

> [D3.js](https://d3js.org/) is a powerful javascript library to make your information visualization journey a piece of cake (if you like cakes. Infact, I just ate some a couple hours ago). It has an active community(talking about D3 and not cakes) as well in case you get stuck somewhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[D3.js](https://d3js.org/) is a powerful JavaScript library to make your information visualization journey a piece of cake (if you like cakes). It has an active community (talking about D3.js, not cakes) as well in case you get stuck somewhere.
```

#### Agenda?

> > This article covers getting the data under a brush selection on a canvas using D3 V4.

Reviewer: Remove `>`.

#### Pre-requisites

> > The article presumes, you have a basic understanding of Javascript, JSON and HTML and know how to include a library (like d3.js) and use it.

Reviewer: Remove `>` after headings.

> > The article presumes, you have a basic understanding of Javascript, JSON and HTML and know how to include a library (like d3.js) and use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The article presumes, you have a basic understanding of JavaScript, JSON and HTML and know how to include a library (like d3.js) and use it.
```

#### GraphJSON
> Whereever in the code below you see a `graph`. It is a `GraphJSON` object. You can learn more about the format of this object [GraphJSON Reference](https://github.com/GraphAlchemist/GraphJSON)

#### What's with this brush?

> > Brush is actually a cross hair type UI which lets you drag and select an area on a canvas (Something like you have seen on while using MS Paint application to draw a rectangle).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Brush is actually a cross hair type UI which lets you drag and select an area on a canvas (something like you might have seen while using MS Paint application).
```

#### Let's dive in

>   In D3 V4, you can create a brush like this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In D3 V4, you can create a brush like this.
```

1. #####  Creating a Brush
```javascript
// creates a brush.
let brush = d3.brush()
        .extent([[0, 0], [width, height]]);
```

    There are two things to note in above code snippet.
   `d3.brush()` - This is a function `d3` provides for creating a brush.
   `extent()` - extent defines the area this brush can cover. For this case it covers the whole canvas area provided width & height are calculated width & height of the canvas container.

2. ##### Brush end event

    So we want the data. Right? Let's plug some logic when brush ends selecting the canvas area.

    ```javascript

>     //let svg = $("#svg-container").append("svg").attr("viewBox", "0 0 " + width + " " + height);

Reviewer: Remove comment.
